#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
Abstract
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This master’s project is dedicated to investigate the potential for educational
 games with a motion controller based interface.
 Through professor Alf Inge Wang at NTNU we were assigned the task of brainstorm
ing and developing a concept that would utilize motion controllers, more
 specifically the Microsoft Kinect, and investigate if it could be useful
 outside of a traditional game setting.
 Additionally it was expressed a desire to have emphasis on reusable software
 that would benefit future projects investigating the same area or using
 the same technology.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Throughout our research period we have discovered several interesting things.
 We found that although the Kinect failed to gain any traction on its intended
 area of use, it is a very impressive piece of affordable technology that
 is worth investigating further.
 Educational games have varying popularity among consumers due to the difficulty
 of finding a formula that combines the values of education and fun in a
 good way.
 A teacher will want a game that can be adapted into a curriculum, which
 the students can learn from, while the students themselves will want a
 game than is engaging and entertaining.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Using the Kinect SDK and the MonoGame framework we were able to develop
 a prototype of a basic grammar game, 4-6 players will stand in front of
 the kinect and be designated a word from a sentence.
 Through discussion and cooperation the players will need to exchange words
 between each other until they agree on how the sentence should be.
 The prototype was tested in an experiment with a group of third graders
 who also answered a questionnaire for our data gathering.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We conclude in this report that there is definitely potential in the idea
 of using motion controllers for educational purposes that is worth exploring
 further.
 The children who tried our prototype expressed great enthusiasm over interactiv
e play in a subject that is normally considered dull for pupils of this
 age group.
 With this report and the software we have produced we hope that we have
 accomplished to make fundament for future endeavours in the topic of using
 motion controllers for educational games.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
