#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation skip
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Part
Conclusion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A summary of our project, and suggestions for further work.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
cleardoublepage
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Summary
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Over the course of this master’s thesis we have designed, developed, and
 evaluated a motion controlled educational game.
 We started the project with a literature study to get familiar with the
 subject at hand, as well as some research into the technology we would
 base the project on.
 The literature study helped us decide on how to progress with our project,
 especially in terms of how we wanted to design our prototype.
 Our focus quickly turned towards making a multiplayer game, especially
 targeted towards a younger audience.
 This decision came from both personal dislike for how much of the earlier
 years of education are structured, as well as a belief that we could have
 an actual impact on how it could be shaped for the future.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
During the project we performed an experiment involving third year elementary
 school students, where we had them try out our newly developed prototype.
 One of the main goals of our design was to be able to allow a whole class
 to play the game during one period, something we achieved.
 We were able to have six students play at once, which makes it feasible
 to allow a whole class to play during a relatively short amount of time
 by assigning them to rotating groups.
 The observations we noted during the experiment were largely positive,
 the students enjoyed the game (especially well noticed by the fact that
 several came back multiple times), they were actively discussing the tasks
 they were given, and everyone was eager to participate from the start.
 Engagement levels during the experiment were way higher than we had expected
 beforehand, especially when considering the simplicity of our core game.
 This only shows how much of an impact adding some less used elements into
 the mix can have, not only the motion controls but also the multiplayer
 focus.
 Neither of these things have been prevalent in educational games targeting
 this age group, with motion controls largely non-existent in general.
 They also showed much interest for the Kinect itself, many of the students
 had experience with motion controls from before, but only a couple had
 tried a system based on camera tracking.
 Some of the interest in the game could be explained by the novelty factor
 of motion tracking, and might be argued that it gets old quick, but we
 still believe that this is an area of usage that has potential.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
All of our student participants claimed that they preferred games like this
 to be multiplayer.
 Adding a social aspect to the games often lead to an increase in playtime.
 Even when the game itself isn’t intended to be directly competitive, players
 often create competitions among their friends and social circle to compare
 how well they do, just look at the Flappy Bird craze from a short time
 back.
 This competitive aspect is a good motivator, and if harnessed correctly
 it can lead to an increase in educational gain as the students want to
 spend more time playing the game.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The technology itself has also gotten a thorough review during our project.
 As far as we can tell the main drawback to using this kind of motion tracking
 for the average home user is the amount of open space required.
 In terms of cost the technology is starting to get affordable by most,
 in the case of the Kinect it even came bundled with the Xbox console for
 a while.
 However, there is a distinct lack of good games that utilise it.
 Taking into account the low interest for having such things at home also
 affected our decision to aim our prototype at a classroom setting.
 All of our findings suggest that this is something that should be taken
 further, with more feature complete games, and a larger pool of test participan
ts.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Future Work
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The combination of motion capture and multiplayer educational games is an
 area that still warrants further exploration.
 Both the observations we noted during the experiment and the feedback we
 received on our questionnaire show that there is a great deal of potential
 for this kind of games.
 The only problem is how to best tap into this potential, not to mention
 getting through the bureaucracy needed to get it implemented in any kind
 of approved curriculum.
 Throughout the project we have gathered some pointers on which areas need
 more work before we believe this topic can be closed, as well as which
 technical aspects of our prototype that needs addressing.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
First and foremost we would like to see a larger study than what we were
 able to perform with our experiment, namely a larger amount of participants
 with more varying age, varied types of tasks, and different subjects.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The game prototype itself is far from a finished product.
 A menu system would benefit it nicely by working as a sort of tutorial
 for getting used to controlling the game using gestures, there should also
 be a small tutorial available that could assist new users on how to play.
 The user interface needs to be made more clear, and scale better to different
 screen sizes.
 We also saw the the horizontal alignment on the textboxes containing the
 single words didn’t quite match the players positions.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There should be a highscore list, this would increase the level of competitivene
ss among the players and thus increase motivation to keep playing.
 We also had several requests on our questionnaire to add more customisation
 options, such as nicknames and choosing their own silhouette color for
 each individual player.
 It should be possible to modify the game length by setting the amount of
 tasks for a round before starting.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Support for different topics should be implemented, ideally allowing for
 a mix of several subjects to the chosen at the start.
 Examples include math or different languages.
 In addition to this there should be more variation in the tasks within
 one subject.
 There should be an accompanying tool to configure the tasks that can appear
 in the game, this would allow for instance teachers to modify the subjects
 covered in the game to suit their curriculum.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For the game itself we have identified two more issues that needs to be
 fixed.
 One is the game over screen, currently this is only a short message showing
 the words “Game Over” and the score acquired from this round.
 The other issue is somewhat related to this, namely sound.
 We currently have no sound implementation as this wasn’t important for
 a prototype, we are even more sure about this after experiencing the noise
 level six third graders can produce during a gaming session.
 However it is something that greatly impacts how finished a product feels
 and should be implemented.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Lastly, we experienced issues having our gestures register during the experiment.
 This was most likely caused by us not being thorough enough when creating
 our gesture database file.
 Ideally this should be done by working with several recordings of different
 people performing the same gesture.
 Since we had everything working out just fine in our lab we assumed this
 would be the case when we were to test the prototype, which it wasn’t.
 We also recommend using someone from the target audience when creating
 this gesture, as a possible reason for the problems is the difference is
 physical size between us university students which did the recordings in
 this project, and the third graders who were testing it.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
