#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Part
Own Contribution
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Placeholder Intro
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Design and Development
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Game Concept
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Grammar focused multiplayer educational game based on sorting words.
 While the gameplay and functionality could easily be used for other educational
 topics, we believe that language, especially grammar, is the subject where
 the need for a motivational boost is most urgent.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Target Audience
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The game is primarily targeted towards elementary school children that needs
 a motivation boost to take an interest in the written language and the
 rules behind it.
 Grammar, wordplay, etc.
 is something we find that most people are bored with easily.
 This leads to a lack of practice which in turn leads to a lack of knowledge.
 We believe that introducing an element of social interaction, both in terms
 of competitiveness and discussion, will increase the motivation to learn
 about these topics.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Gameplay
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Main game flow:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The game presents the problem along with a short countdown.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The game then reveals the initial ordering of the words, and starts deducting
 points for time spent.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Players arrange the words into what they believe is the correct order.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Players lock in their answer.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
The game shows feedback on whether the answer was correct or not.
 If the answer is incorrect: moves back to 3.
 and deducts points for every word in the wrong position.
 Additional reductions if there are several misses in a row to discourage
 a try/fail approach.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Correct answer adds points based on time spent, and a bonus if correct on
 first try.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
If the time or number of problem limit is reached the game proceeds to the
 score screen, else it goes back to 1.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Problem types:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Arranging sentences: Scrambled sentences that needs rearranging to become
 grammatically correct.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Word classes: Identifying and placing words in the right categories such
 as Nouns, Verbs or Adjectives.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Verb tenses: Ordering a verbs tenses in the correct order.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Interface/Controls
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Moving words:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Each player will have a word tied to their position relative to the other
 players.
 When the players change position between themselves the words will also
 move accordingly.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Paragraph
Locking answers:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
All players must make a gesture, like raising their hands, at the same time.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Empirical Study
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Discussion
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
